hey this is presto Walker this problem
was part of a written interview test for
Amazon in India a drawer contains twelve
identical black socks and twelve
identical white socks if you pick two
socks at random what is the probability
of getting a matching pair can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for the solution many people think
when you pick two socks they will either
match or they will not match since the
number of black and white socks are
equal the probability of matching should
be 50% but this tempting answer is wrong
the probability of making a pair is
actually slightly less than 50% let's
calculate and figure out why there are
12 white socks and 12 black socks by
symmetry the probability of picking a
black pair of socks equals the
probability of picking a white pair of
socks so let's calculate the probability
of picking a black pair of socks there
is a 12 over 24 chance the first sock is
black this is because there are 12 black
socks out of 24 socks total 12 over 24
simplifies to be 1/2 now what's the
chance of picking a black sock on the
second draw for the second sock the
chance will be 11 out of 23 because
there are 11 black socks remaining out
of a total of 23 socks remaining the
asymmetry is because we are sampling
without replacement
so what does this all mean it means the
probability of picking a black pair is
1/2 times 11 over 23 this will also be
the probability of picking a white pair
by symmetry so we can put this all
together to get the odds of picking a
pair of matching socks the probability
of picking a matching pair will equal
the probability of picking a black pair
plus the probability of picking a white
pair each of these is equal to 1/2 times
11 over 23 and therefore the probability
of picking a pair of matching socks will
be 11 over 23 which is approximately
47.8% this is slightly less than 1/2 did
you figure it out thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
if you like this video you can support
me on patreon and you can check out my
books which are listed in the video
description you can also follow me on
social media either at mind your
decisions or at presh to occur depending
on the site